# Personality

Because we are more than our title, education or job. If we
get the chance to meet, you find that I am a authentic,
helpful and critical (but fact-driven) individual.

## Authentic

I am a really bad poker player, because I say what I think
and I mean I say. Some would qualify me as a simple person,
but by holding true to my values, I can enjoy solving
problems and focusing on them.

## Helpful

I care about those who are near to me: my family, my
colleagues, my friends. I try my best to support them in
every action I take.

## Critical

This might be the most controversial qualifier.
Nevertheless, I think it is important, now more than ever,
for individuals to have opinions and be able to defend them,
while being able to discuss and change their judgments. The
speed at which information travels is faster than ever, and
many platforms as well as influential personalities publicly
support *alternative* facts. This situation requires
individuals with critical thinking and able to defend their
point of views are more needed than ever.

# Data Analysis

Because tools without creativity, ideas and theory are not
worth much.

## Mathematics

This is most elegant and timeless skill I had the chance to
culture. Thanks to my passion, I learned how to prove
statements, construct counter-example, improve existing
solutions and vulgarizing concepts. It also comes with an
additional benefits of learning the Greek alphabet and not
being afraid of formulas anymore. The downside is, as most
mathematicians, I lost my ability to do simple arithmetic.

## Statistics

With software engineering, this is the skills I developed
late in my studies. It required a wonderful teacher in
mathematical statistics for me to appreciate it. I completed
a second master at [ETH](https://www.ethz.ch/en.html) to
solidify my basis in traditional statistics.

## Machine Learning

This discipline is an interesting crossing betwen
statistics, mathematics and programming. In contrast to
statistics, we are more interested in the predictive power
than parameter inference. The field created its own
vocabulary for its application: supervised, unsupervised,
reinforcement and deep learning.

One project I really liked in the field was a personal
project on artistic style transfer using deep learning. The
aim was to combine two pictures, a content and a style
picture, to create a new image which would keep the
characteristic of both. My aim was to develop a general
algorithm which could cope with any style and any content.
In order to complete the project, I used Google
[TPUs](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/) with all the attached
requirements (data serialization, cloud storage and
computing).

# Programming

## Languages

I contributed professionally to projects in `Clojure`,
`Python`, `Matlab`, `R` and `groovy/Java`. These projects
were mainly task automation or data analysis. This leads me
to learn a different skill set than the typical software
engineer, as simplicity, modular code and speed of
development are emphasized compared to other types of
projects. I love writing code in Clojure as it drastically
reduces accidental complexity.

## Functional Programming

Again a controversial claim: I fully embrace the functional
programming model and avoid the object-oriented paradigm as
much as possible. It implies that even though I could use
objects and classes, I use other mechanism in the
programming language to achieve modularity, encapsulation
and reusability. For example, in python, I use modules to
create namespace and rely on `collections.namedtuple` or
dictionaries for data container. This leads to much simpler
and readable code. This
[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rI8tNMsozo0) by Rich
Hickey, creator of Clojure, will do a better job to support
my view.

## Tools

I mainly used `emacs` which allows me code in all
programming language with a single text editor. Thanks to
it, I am extremely happy whenever I have to write text/code
as the shortcuts and the ability to configure the editor
with elisp allows me to automate many tasks. Obviously, I
prefer to work in linux environment with a command line
terminal.

## Infrastructure

I used and configured cloud virtual machines on with Google
Cloud, AWS, Azure and Digital Ocean. The main purpose was to
rent machines at discounted price to run deep learning
models or to host webapps. I created scripts to launch and
end the instances, and connected to the machines through
`ssh` with emacs.
